---
layout: post
title: Running analytics on a large dataset using Python
categories: [p]
---

For this project, I used Python to analyze a large dataset on Los Angeles rent prices. I was looking for an apartment during my undergraduate studies at USC, and I wanted to parse [this data]([https://usc.data.socrata.com/Los-Angeles/Rent-Price-LA-/4a97-v5tx/about_data](this data)).

In order to satisfy my curiosities, I drafted some questions about the data, and then wrote the following code to scrape the webpages:

{% highlight c %}import pandas as pd
import csv

d = pd.read_csv("rent_prices.csv")

df = d.dropna()
df.head(1)
df.isna().any()
df.info()

# How long is this dataset?
len(df)

# What are number of unique neighborhood values?
df["Neighborhood"].nunique()

# What are number of unique tract values?
df["Tract"].nunique()
df.groupby(["Year","Neighborhood"])["Amount"].median()

# How long is this dataset once you filter to a certain column's (year) value?"
twentyten = df[df.Year == 2010]
len(twentyten)
twentysixteen = df[df.Year == 2016]
len(twentysixteen)
df["Amount"].value_counts
  
# Does the sum/mean of columns change once the dataset is filtered?"
df["Amount"].mean()
df.groupby(["Year"])["Amount"].mean()

# Yes, the mean rent overall from 2010-2016 was 1316.91, 
but the mean rent rose from 1222.22 in 2010 to 1419.80 in 2016.

# What is the max rent in a tract between 2010-2016?
   
df.sort_values("Amount").tail(10)

# The maximum average rent in a tract was $3500
# What is the mean of a column once it's grouped by a different column? 

shermanoaks = df[df.Neighborhood == "Sherman Oaks"]
len(shermanoaks)
shermanoaks.groupby("Year")["Amount"].mean()

# Mean rent in Sherman Oaks has risen by about $220 between 2010 and 2016 {% endhighlight %}

Upon reflecting, I found that LA rents did not increase a lot in the past decade, which is possibly due to strong renter protections and rent control laws that protect tenants. With this data, I was able to derive insight into the landscape of Los Angeles' sprawling real estate market and draw meaningful conclusions about where my money would be best spent.
